Issue 39 capacity design doc (#124)
LibertyDSNP/frequency: designdocs/CAPACITY.md

   fn reduce_available(msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;
   fn increase_available(msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;
 }

```

We can represent Capacity as a mapping of an MsaId to information containing the total balance available to an MSA.

```rust
#[pallet::storage]
pub type CapacityOf<T: Config> = StorageMap<_, Blake2_128Concat, MessageSenderId, Details<T::Balance>>;

pub struct Details {
	pub used: Balance,
	pub available: Balance,
}
```

And we can store the a token account staking to MSA by mapping.

```rust
#[pallet::storage]
pub type Staking<T: Config> = StorageMap<_, Blake2_128Concat, T::AccountId, StakingDetails<T::Balance>>;

pub struct StakingDetails<Balance> {
	pub msa_id: MessageSenderId,
	pub total_reserved: Balance,
}
```

To give the limitations of what you can do with Capacity you are limited to staking and un-staking Capacity for token. Note that these interface can change as we introduce stash and controller accounts using Proxy pallet.

```rust
pub fn stake(origin: OriginFor<T>, account: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T>)

> pub fn stake(origin: OriginFor<T>, account: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T>)

Author: unstake

```

Events for triggers for staking include

```rust
pub enum Event<T: Config> {
  Staked { account: T::AccountId, msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T> },

  UnStake{ account: T::AccountId, msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T> },
}
```

Errors when staking

```rust
pub enum Error<T> {
	AlreadyStaked,
	InsufficientBalance,		
	InvalidMsa,
}
```

**Capacity is replenishable**

> Replenishable mean that after a certain fixed period, called an epoch, all capacity is replenished. The epoch period is composed of  blocks. A block is filled with 25% transactions being operational and 75% for all other transactions including Capacity. This can be configurable by setting the  `AvailableBlockRatio` . Moreover, one unit of Capacity is `10^12` and matches with substrate weight measurement where `10^12` is 1 second of execution time.

Author: add note about how in the beginning we will be having a fix epoch length that is configurable. At some point it will evolve to something like this.

# Capacity Design Doc

## Context and Scope

> In this document I will introduce the concept of Capacity which will provide a way for users to obtain fee-less transactions. 

Reviewer: This section needs to define the scope of the design document by saying what is and is not specified.

Feeless transactions are important in reaching mass adoption as it removes the overhead costs of transactions for app developers to acquire a far reaching user base.

**What is Capacity?**

Capacity is a non-transferable resource that is associated to an MSA account. You can use capacity to pay for transactions and it replenishes after a certain period which can be used to continue to pay for new transactions. More details on how capacity replenishes below.

## Proposal

MRC has two types of account systems—a MSA account and a token account. You can acquire Capacity by staking your own tokens to your MSA account or when others stake their tokens to your MSA. The  amount staked is reserved from the your account free balance which is refunded after a thaw period. Once staked,  Capacity is granted at a 1 to 1 conversion.  Upon receiving Capacity, it can then be used to pay for transactions. 

There is a minimum required for staking that will be detailed further in a supplemental design that goes into details of staking and rewards.

**Below** **are transactions that can be paid with Capacity:**

> - Create an MSA

Reviewer: Which of these txns can be paid with token?

Author: All are possible to be done with token.

- Add a key to an MSA
- Delegate permissions to another MSA
- Update Delegate Permissions
- Send a message
- Send a batch message

As mentioned above, Capacity is non-transferable and at a minimum implements the following interface.

```rust

> traits Nontransferable {

Reviewer: Even if it seems obvious, all of these interfaces need to describe what they are for and what each parameter is for.

Also for each interface, specify limitations such as who can call them, error conditions, constants, events emitted.  Can I increase or reduce my own capacity, for example? One could not tell from this document.

   type Balance = Balance;

   fn available(msa_id: MessageSenderId) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;

>    fn reduce_available(msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;

Reviewer 2: What if somebody uses a negative amount of Balance in reduce? then it will increase right? I think the Balance type should have a constraint to not be signed!

Reviewer: ^^ example of what limitations on parameters there should be, which need to be documented.

Reviewer 3: > `type Balance = u64;`
Balance is a uint already.

   fn increase_available(msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;
 }

```

> We can represent Capacity as a mapping of an MsaId to information containing the total balance available to an MSA.

Reviewer: Suggest "Capacity will be stored as a mapping..."

```rust
#[pallet::storage]
pub type CapacityOf<T: Config> = StorageMap<_, Blake2_128Concat, MessageSenderId, Details<T::Balance>>;

pub struct CapacityDetails {
	pub used: Balance,
	pub total_available: Balance,

  // these to be discussed below
  pub last_replenished_epoch: u32,
  pub initial_epoch: u32
}
```

And we can store the a token account staking to MSA by mapping.

```rust
#[pallet::storage]
pub type Staking<T: Config> = StorageMap<_, Blake2_128Concat, T::AccountId, StakingDetails<T::Balance>>;

pub struct StakingDetails<Balance> {
	pub msa_id: MessageSenderId,
	pub total_reserved: Balance,
}
```

To give the limitations of what you can do with Capacity you are limited to staking and un-staking Capacity for token. Note that these interface can change as we introduce stash and controller accounts using Proxy pallet.

```rust
pub fn stake(origin: OriginFor<T>, account: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T>)

pub fn unstake(origin: OriginFor<T>, account: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T>)

> ```

Reviewer 4: Should there be an initial period after staking such that only after that period has passed the unstaking will be allowed.
But I see this might be replaced with proxy. Is there a scenario where one can increase capacity for a period of epochs as for example when users will expect high volume and tone it down later.

Reviewer 3: Yes. We are leaving the thaw system for https://github.com/LibertyDSNP/mrc/issues/40

Reviewer: I was going to ask about a cooling off period for staking/unstaking too.  A thaw system should be noted in this doc and in the Context and Scope it should be stated that it will not be specified in this document.

Events for triggers for staking include

```rust
pub enum Event<T: Config> {
  Staked { account: T::AccountId, msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T> },

  UnStake{ account: T::AccountId, msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: BalanceOf<T> },
}
```

Errors when staking

```rust
pub enum Error<T> {
	AlreadyStaked,
	InsufficientBalance,		
	InvalidMsa,
}
```

**Capacity is replenishable**

> Replenishable means that after a certain fixed period, called an epoch, all capacity is replenished. The epoch period is composed of blocks.  Moreover, one unit of Capacity is `10^12` and matches with substrate weight measurement where `10^12` is 1 second of execution time.

Author: @wilwade did you still have concerns about the units?

Author: 1 capacity has the same weight executing potential as one token.

> Replenishable means that after a certain fixed period, called an epoch, all capacity is replenished. The epoch period is composed of blocks.  Moreover, one unit of Capacity is `10^12` and matches with substrate weight measurement where `10^12` is 1 second of execution time.

Reviewer 2: is epoch fixed? I thought epoch is not fixed and we calculate it based on previous capacity used?

Reviewer 3: @aramikm we are starting with fixed epochs (likely with a slow predicable expansion). The dynamic epochs we are leaving on the table as an improvement we can add if we feel like we need it after testing.

> Replenishable means that after a certain fixed period, called an epoch, all capacity is replenished. The epoch period is composed of blocks.  Moreover, one unit of Capacity is `10^12` and matches with substrate weight measurement where `10^12` is 1 second of execution time.

Reviewer: As stated it would mean that Capacity and 1 compute second are 1:1.  I thought we had said Capacity and Weight were 1:1. 

Anyway doesn't this depend on the reference hardware we will use to create benchmarks?

Author: No. These are units of measurement.

Since we want the ability to replenish Capacity the following interface is implement to replenish capacity.

```rust

traits Replenishable {
   type Balance: Balance;
   

> 	 fn replenish_by_account(msa_id: MessageSenderId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, Eroor> {};

Author: format

   fn replenish_all_for_account(msa_id: MessageSenderId) -> Result<Balance, Error>;
   fn can_replenish(msa_id: MessageSenderId) -> bool;
}
```

> **How capacity replenishes?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How capacity replenishes**
```

As mentioned above, epoch periods are composed of blocks. The next epoch period calculated is based on the current epoch fullness, and expands and contracts depending on a threshold. This threshold is configurable and can be called `config::epochThreshold` . Additionally, we can also configure a multiplier that we increase or decrease the next epoch based on the fullness of the current epoch. This is defined as `config::epochUtilizationMultiplier`.

![Untitled](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3433442/171747512-651112be-bbdc-4197-96ef-0cd208f702db.png)

> The above illustrates two epochs where the second one contracts because network congestion has decreased. As a result of epoch decreasing, capacity is replenish faster. Note that initially epoch periods will be fixed in sized for a period of time.

Reviewer 2: > Note that initially epoch periods will be fixed in sized for a period of time.

please explain more on this

Author: betanet: 10-100 blocks
testnet: 5 blocks
mainet: 10-100 blocks

**How are epochs calculated?**

> Epoch are used to manage congestion on the network. As demand increases for network resources the epoch length increases which results in capacity taking longer to replenish. 

Reviewer 2: what if an epoc takes super long time?

Reviewer 4: Or is there a priority queue and epoch be tied to length, just would we like to treat all capacity holders the same way be it a small dapp(few hundred users) to bigger providers staking more (say million users on board).

Reviewer: Is there a minimum and maximum for epoch length?  Also there must be a maximum of total capacity that can be distributed, what is that?  We need to allow for a certain amount of weight for token transactions, we can't occupy the entire epoch with capacity messages.

> Upon the finalization of each block, we can get the total amount of weight used and update the total amount of weight for an epoch

Author: @wilwade there is a governance capability to alter.

![Untitled](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3433442/171747526-566ee44a-194f-47e3-8abb-e2c415ac7fb5.png)

**Transactions fees**

> When submitting capacity transactions, before including these transaction in a block they are validated at the transaction pool. The validation implemented doing a [SignedExtension](https://docs.rs/sp-runtime/latest/sp_runtime/traits/trait.SignedExtension.html) that validates that the signed transaction is associated to an MSA that contains a Capacity balance. If the MSA has capacity it then increases the amount of capacity is used. If no Capacity is remaining for the epoch period the transaction remains in the future queue until the next epoch. Once the next epoch starts and Capacity becomes available the transaction is processed.

Reviewer 2: It seems like future queue can get flooded if epoc becomes too long and we have a lot of transaction without capacity coming in.

Reviewer 3: @aramikm.  @enddynayn and I were talking about if we needed to add a "target epoch" to capacity transactions. That way we could limit future transactions and drop off ones that are overusing instead of just waiting for the next epoch. Thoughts? Would that help with this concern?

Author: Yup. I am working on adding more to this section.

Reviewer: Is there ever a condition where the pool would drop messages?

Non-capacity transaction remained unchanged and follow the same default flow. During implementation a wrapper capacity transaction pallet is used to wrap pallet transaction payment to toggle between capacity and non-capacity transactions and set the [validity of the transaction.](https://paritytech.github.io/substrate/master/sp_runtime/transaction_validity/struct.ValidTransaction.html)

> ![Untitled](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3433442/171749900-21470787-b74f-44fa-b32d-ac06138f7616.png)

Author: this image needs a bit more tender love.

## Non-Goals
Staking details are left for another design document.

## Benefits and Risk

> The benefits of implementing Capacity is that it allows applications to increase their users my reducing cost.

Reviewer: Needs also benefits and risks of this particular design.

Reviewer 4: We need to Know risks or potential risks we will  either mitigate at implementation time or expect to mitigate at some point.
Or are we saying there arent any risks to capacity model

## Alternatives and Rationale

> 

Reviewer: This section needs filling out.  We've talked a lot about alternatives.

# Capacity Design Doc

## Context and Scope

Feeless transactions are important in reaching mass adoption as it removes the overhead costs of transactions for app developers to acquire a far reaching user base.

In this document I will introduce the concept of Capacity and how capacity can be used to pay for transaction fees.

**What is Capacity?**

Capacity is a non-transferable resource that is associated to an MSA account. You can use capacity to pay for transactions and it replenishes after a certain period which can be used to continue to pay for new transactions. More details on how capacity replenishes below.

## Proposal

> MRC has two types of account systems—a MSA account and a token account. You can acquire Capacity by staking your own tokens to your MSA account or when others stake their tokens to your MSA. The amount staked is reserved from an account free balance which is refunded after a thaw period. Once staked, Capacity is granted at a 1 to 1 conversion.  Upon receiving Capacity, it can then be used to pay for transactions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Frequency has two types of account systems—a MSA account and a token account. You can acquire Capacity by staking your own tokens to your MSA account or when others stake their tokens to your MSA. The amount staked is locked from an account free balance which is unlocked after a thaw period. Once staked, Capacity is granted at a 1 to 1 conversion. Staking will be detailed in another design doc and may change this ratio.  Upon receiving Capacity, it can then be used to pay for transactions. 
```

  pub used: Balance,

  /// The total Capacity an MSA account has per Epoch.
  pub total_available: Balance,

  /// The last Epoch that an MSA was replenished.
  pub last_replenished_epoch: u32,

  /// The first Epoch for which Capacity was issued.
  pub initial_epoch: u32
}
```

And we can store records of a token account staking to MSA by using the following map.

```rust
/// Storage for keeping record of Accounts staking to MSA's.
#[pallet::storage]
pub type Staking<T: Config> = StorageMap<_, Blake2_128Concat, T::AccountId, StakingDetails<T::Balance>>;

pub struct StakingDetails<Balance, BlockNumber> {
  /// The message source id to which an account is staked to.
  pub msa_id: MessageSourceId,

  /// The amount being staked to an MSA account.
  pub total_reserved: Balance,

  /// start of staking
  pub since: BlockNumber,
}
```

Initially, you are limited to staking and un-staking token for Capacity. As mentioned above a more detailed design doc around staking and rewards are deferred to the [staking design doc](https://github.com/LibertyDSNP/frequency/issues/40). Note that these interface can change as we introduce stash and controller accounts using Proxy pallet.

> The amount staked is reserved from the account balance using the [NamedReserveableCurrency](https://paritytech.github.io/substrate/master/frame_support/traits/trait.NamedReservableCurrency.html) trait.

Reviewer 3: We want to switch to Lock.

   fn reduce_available(msa_id: MessageSourceId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;

   /// Increase the available Capacity for an MSA account.
   fn increase_available(msa_id: MessageSourceId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;
 }

```

**Capacity is replenishable**

Replenishable means that after a certain fixed period, called an epoch, all capacity is replenished. The epoch period is composed of blocks.  Moreover, one unit of Capacity is `10^12` and matches with substrate weight measurement where `10^12` is 1 second of execution time.

Since we want the ability to replenish Capacity the following interface is implement to replenish capacity.

```rust
trait Replenishable {
  type Balance: Balance;
   
  /// Replenish an MSA amount.
  fn replenish_by_account(msa_id: MessageSourceId, amount: Balance) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError> {};

  /// Replish all available balance.
  fn replenish_all_for_account(msa_id: MessageSourceId) -> Result<Balance, DispatchError>;

  /// Checks if an account is able to be replenished.
  fn can_replenish(msa_id: MessageSourceId) -> bool;
}
```

**How capacity replenishes**

> As mentioned above, epoch periods are composed of blocks. The next epoch period calculated is based on the current epoch fullness, and expands and contracts depending on a threshold. This threshold is configurable and can be called `config::epochThreshold`. Additionally, we can also configure a multiplier that we increase or decrease the next epoch based on the fullness of the current epoch. This is defined as `config::epochUtilizationMultiplier`.

Reviewer 3: We need to shift the dynamic section into the alternatives area.

Reviewer 4: I believe this dynamism mechanism (looks like a simple adaptive window) needs to be detailed further, unless considering V1 of frequency this could fly but not sure adaptive nature takes into consideration number of providers or capacity holders etc.

We can distinguish how to retrive if a transaction should be paid with Capacity or Token by requiring that a payment via Capacity to be called with `pay_with_capacity` extrinsic. 

```rust
#[pallet::call]
impl<T: Config> Pallet<T> {
  #[pallet::weight({
    let dispatch_info = call.get_dispatch_info();
    (T::WeightInfo::pay_with_capacity().saturating_add(dispatch_info.weight), dispatch_info.class,)
  })]
  pub fn pay_with_capacity(
    origin: OriginFor<T>,
    call: Box<CallOf<T>>,
  ) -> DispatchResultWithPostInfo {
    ensure_signed(origin.clone())?;
    call.dispatch(origin)
  }
}
```

`ChargeTransactionPayment` struct type is used to implement a SignedExtension which validates that the signer has enought Capacity or Token to withdraw a fee. A withdraw_fee method is used to resolve and withdraw payment fee from either a Token or Capacity account. If the signer does not have enought to pay for transaction errors with a `TransactionValidityError` and drops the transaction from the pool. 

```rust

> /// A type that is used for implementing a SignedExtension to handle transaction fees validation and withdrawal.

Reviewer 3: This is too detailed for the design doc. It is implementation.

    pre: Self::Pre,
    info: &DispatchInfoOf<Self::Call>,
    post_info: &PostDispatchInfoOf<CallOf<T>>,
    len: usize,
    result: &DispatchResult,
  ) -> Result<(), TransactionValidityError> {
    use pallet_transaction_payment::ChargeTransactionPayment;
    
    let (tip, who, initial_payment) = pre;
    let actual_fee = pallet_transaction_payment::Pallet::<T>::compute_actual_fee(
      len as u32,
      info,
      post_info,
      tip,
    );
    
    match initial_payment {
      InitialPayment::Token(already_withdrawn) => {
        let pre_pre = (tip, who, already_withdrawn);
        ChargeTransactionPayment::<T>::post_dispatch(
          pre_pre, info, post_info, len, result,
        )?;
      },
      InitialPayment::Capacity(already_withdrawn) => {
        let account = 1u32; 
        T::OnChargeCapacityTransaction::correct_and_deposit_fee(
          &account,
          info,
          post_info,
          actual_fee.into(),
          tip.into(),
          already_withdrawn,
        )?;
      },
      InitialPayment::Nothing => {
        debug_assert!(tip.is_zero(), "tip should be zero if initial fee was zero.");
      },
    }
    Ok(())
  }
  ...
}

> ```

Reviewer 4: Agree we dont need this in design doc, implementation should depend of story holder and put their skills to practice
